Thank you very much, everyone, again for participating. Thank you for coming. Thank you very much
for coming. Thank you very much, everyone. And thank you very much to all the participants on the
Zoom or on the line. I'm also thankful, grateful. You're making time and effort to join us. I'm
very grateful.
And what we're doing, talking here, is something really important. I believe, and again, you
believe too, I believe in the Buddha's teaching. Because when we follow the Buddha's teaching,
meditation teacher, Buddha Chaturmani and a work member of somebody, everyone says, all the monks
have said, in this lifetime, there are two things to do.
The purpose is that we fulfill the goal and the vision of this lifetime, and the purpose of the
beautiful goals of this life, and as well as for the future, there's two things. And the most of
the time, we spend time to fulfill the goal and the purpose of these life activities, and all the
different things, which is known as formally the activity of the samsaras.
But when we follow the teaching of the Buddha and the teaching of the gracious teacher of Bhumbara
and the sambhava, we're not just doing it only for this life, these times. We're doing it for this
world too, but for the future.
And also, we're not just doing it only for ourselves, but we're doing this practice and meditating,
whatever we're doing, the Buddha's teaching, is for thinking of all the things that are more broad,
good, more broad and bigger minds.
And in the vastness mind, we're doing that. Whether we can prefer that or achieve, or whether we
can keep up that all the time or not, but at least we have the intention to do something good for
ourselves, to all the beings, and reach and pray that we all do.
So therefore, I think we all get together here. Whether it is Zoom, whether we're together here, of
course, together here is so wonderful, so beautiful, because that makes more kind of inspiring,
helping and supporting.
And also, it is more mandatory activities, you're making more joyful effort to come and to do the
practices that spending time towards the Dharma and spending effort for the Dharma to benefit all
beings is known as accumulation of merit.
Accumulation of merit? What's the merit? I'm sure.
You heard, I heard, we all heard that in order to reach enlightenment, in order to purify our
negative within obstacles, we have to accumulate merit, merit.
So making all the effort and spending time and energy and for the Dharma, it is known as virtuous,
meritorious activities.
And when we read history of the Lord, teaching of the Buddha, great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
before he gets enlightenment, he spends so much effort, time in the college, in the commitment, for
the practice, for the Dharma, for the teachings.
Really, he spends so much time and accumulated merit and reach enlightenment, become that. And so
many great Masters also spend a lot of time and effort, the energy, and so many, put together, to
become the great Masters.
When you read life stories from that, when Buddhism came to Tibet for the first time, so many great
Masters went so really worthy of courage and commitment to join the effort and ignored or kind of
don't care if the heart can, difficulty, journey of that time.
That time, journeys are not so easy. Even in the distant, close in the country, neighborhood land,
neighborhood countries, but it's according to teaching.
And of course, we know it's all difficult and makes such a big effort and gets all the teachings
and brought back to the teachings to Tibet. Those are our own teachings.
So today, we are all gathered to do such a beautiful practice and meditate and reactivate our
understanding, knowledge, or reminder of our teaching practice.
You learn. I think it's really wonderful. I'm so thankful. I'm so grateful. Thank you, everyone.
Thank you. Thank you, everyone.
And then again, of course, we all know, and I mentioned so many times, you know, dharma is the
completely best upon the mind, not too much external things.
So mind, in order to also resist the dharma teaching and also to contemplate the teaching, to
practice the dharma, we have to correct our mind, our own mind.
Mind is the engine. Mind is the foundation. Mind is the everything. For that reason, again, we
spend our beautiful motivation.
Motivation of the joy and appreciation. Motivation of the vastness. Motivation of the Mahayana
teachings.
And the skillful means the motivation of the Vedayana teachings. Those are, again, our tool that,
of course, many of you already know, but few of you don't know exactly.
And what means, fourth is motivation of joy, primo joy, more appreciation. In this lifetime, we
have maybe many some difficulties and troubles.
But after all, if you count the percentage, we have really a lot of reason to celebrate joy and
appreciation in many ways.
In the worldly level, in the spiritual level, we have lot of good. High light is joy. That is
medicine. That is healing power, primo joy, more appreciation, more grateful.
Those are known as foundation of dharma, too, really. And also in the samsara, it is so good to
have more joy, more appreciation, more grateful, more contentment.
All those are known as the luxuries, richness. When we don't have the joy and appreciation, content
ment, what we have, we are, can be poor.
When we have joy and appreciation, being grateful, more contentment, we are rich. Those are known
as the rich wealth of dharma, spiritual.
It's natural. We're not making up the joy and appreciation. We have really lot of reason to be more
joy, more appreciation, more thankful, more grateful, more contentment.
Those are the common general foundations of the teachings. When our practice is best upon that, we
will go very far and very straight without any obstacles, any big chains, really.
Therefore, also to exhibit teaching, to activate any teaching or brain understanding, more joy,
more appreciation, more grateful, and happy.
All that, all the situations, circumstances and opportunities, you both, each in terms of those
great masters, even though in a life we had a lot of trouble, they said, we have a lot of trouble,
but I'm so thankful for that trouble.
Because of that, I am able to connect with dharma. With all that, that trouble, I won't get
connected to teaching.
So therefore, great master Dung Nip said, I'm thankful, great master Dung Chin Pa. I'm thankful
that obstacle that met connected, I can practice dharma and I'm become now the fearlessness.
I reach the fearlessness because of that obstacle, because of that troubles, thankful even for the
obstacles, handiness.
And I'm talking now, not just only that, thankful for what we have, what we have, the beautiful
qualities, what we really, we reach out.
It's more practical, not just hovering on the sky and looking some different directions, but
starting from here, from the bottom, from the dome, from the ground, more practical, more healthy,
more beautiful, more stable.
Therefore, bring more joy and appreciation in the life. And also having opportunity to do practice,
to understand. This is the scope of teaching, the practice is very special, very special.
So thankful, grateful, with joy and appreciation. Now, not just only joy, then second motivation is
the Mahayana motivation, known as vastness, motivation, bodhicata.
Thank you for all living beings, reading that. I'm interested in what that means, increasing more
compassion.
Compassion is the foundation of the Buddha teaching.
Buddha said to the bodhisattva, vajyapani, vajyapani, bodhisattva, vajyapani, Buddha said the vajy
apani is best, the root of enlightenment is compassion.
Compassion is the root of enlightenment. And that is the foundation of the teaching.
And vastness, motivation, motivation of Mahayana started with compassion.
Taking all living beings, and what that means, all living beings, not just human beings, not just
only these Americans or these country beings, but all the living beings, all the animals, all the
individual beings.
Anybody that is open, you know, beings of six realms, six different universes, six different realms
, or six different worlds.
The realm of the world of the hell-ramps, the realm of the worlds of the hungry gods, the realm of
the world of all animals, the realm of the human beings.
And there are so many human beings on this world that we see. In this world, there are so many
beings, all the beings.
And all the realms of the aspiras, realms and worlds of the gods, realms.
Why we have to feel compared to all of them? Because their intention, desire that every living
being has the same intention.
Like to be happy, like to be joy, like to be peaceful, like to fulfill all the goals, all the
wishes.
But yet, they're not fulfilling. Everyone is struggling. Everyone has difficulty.
To compare what so many people go, or many beings go, to with us, we are in heaven.
Ourself really in heaven, to compare with what trouble the difficult is going in the different
realms.
Or not just only in the realms, even this world, even on this earth.
To compare with somebody else going through all the difficult challenges and troubles, one after
another.
Not just one trouble, right troubles.
To compare with that, we are in heaven. Those who are here, those who are in this country, majority
.
Even though there's someone, even this rich country going through troubles, a lot of them.
So everyone's intention is the same. They like to be happy. There's no exceptions.
Therefore, every compassion is so important, so powerful. Compassion is medicine.
Compassion is the root of enlightenment, really in the teaching stage.
And the root of enlightenment, and not just the root of enlightenment, the essential of the
enlightenment.
Central column of enlightenment, feel great compassion to all the living beings, to everyone.
And we feel compassion, what we join in Dharma, in Mahayana Buddhism.
Poor, immeasurable jobs. May all living beings are free from suffering.
And cause of suffering, may all living beings have happiness, cause of happiness.
Really wishing sincerely from the heart, and joining those prayer, "Whoa."
In what the teaching says, the greatest teacher, Buddha, he comes up and says,
"If you say that one sincerely from deep over your heart, heart and soul, and rougher like that,
that has so much power to purify all the obscurations,
negativities, and accumulated merits.
Accumulated, purified obstacles, obscurations, disease, sicknesses."
Compassion is healing power. It is the most powerful medicine, inner healing.
It heals. It heals our sicknesses, our obscurations.
Also it helps with others, whole beings.
So therefore, it's compassion. It's really vastness of compassion.
Why isn't he called vastness? He's compassion to all living beings.
Everyone, without any discrimination, without any partially, and reaching ever.
That is called reach of the bodhijapa. That is called compassion of bodhijapa.
We all have the compassion, actually.
Everyone, without compassion and loving kindness or love, no one can survive.
Whether you are a human being, whether you are animals.
But everyone's compassion and love is limited.
When bodhisattva of love, my inner love and compassion is vastness.
So no boundaries, no limitations, no discriminations.
It's a pervasive light to shine everywhere, to every place.
Really we're sensitive from the heart.
That is foundation and practice of dharma, resilient dharma.
In the teachings, when we have that compassion, that attitude,
that teaching and practices go deep to the heart and eluded, not become shaky.
And start with some excitement in that and then fade away.
Many times that happened. He said, "Fade away." Why?
Because we didn't activate our compassion and loving kindness, joy and appreciation.
And when we're not activated, then what comes?
All those duality, consumptions, negativity.
In the Buddha teaching, often named obstacles, obstacles, all the emotions,
different doubt, hesitation, skeptical.
All those comes, one after another, and they ruined us.
According to the teaching, these skeptical thoughts ruined our life.
Not just only this lifetime, from the biggest times.
That's what we are wondering in samsara.
In the biggest time, it carried that thought.
It carried us every, all the time.
That soul, the effort, the strength and courage and commitment,
compassion and loving kindness, is so important.
That's called vastness, motivation of the Mahayana or the Bodhisattva.
And also think of ourself at this time.
Really practice and meditate.
These riches, they really wish this benefit for all this universal world.
Even in our own eyes, our ears, how much trouble and difficulties
are going on these natural disasters, man-made troubles.
One after another, all that.
Really, this is our retreat, our practice.
This whole one we made that become the big support, big antidote.
To ease, to remove all the obstacles, all these natural disasters
and bring more balance, more balance to us externally.
More balance, inversion to our, all the human beings mentality stages,
all the big, really rich, sensitive from the heart and the mind
is so powerful and so special.
Those are known as teaching and practicing downwards.
And this one is known as the motivation of the Vedayana teachings
and bring more, kind of, enlightened qualities.
In the Vedayana teaching, everything is enlightened states.
Our world, why that means enlightened states?
Why that everything is enlightened?
The ordinary nature, ordinary quality is all enlightened states.
Everything.
But why we don't see now?
Because due to our duality, our negativities,
our obscurations are completely blocked.
Our duality negativity is like as cataracts or where else is blocked.
So everything is a reality, enlightened states, things like this.
And those are known as five perfect states or three Vedas states.
And three Vedas, all poems are enlightened.
All the songs are enlightened.
And all the mind and the space are enlightened.
Everything is enlightened.
And that is the terminology used, "Vedya."
"Vedya" means soft world, it's oscillated into English, maybe diamonds.
So they're uncheckable, unchangeable.
The enlightened nature qualities, enlightened states,
everything is divine and beautiful states, kind of having those energies.
Everything is that beautiful state,
have that tone or at least activated that "A,"
known as the purity, motivation of the Vedayana teachings.
And then that, so with those thought,
and we go now with this text that whenever you have this,
this and we go here now, now here.
And this is, then who taught this teaching?
Who taught this teaching?
And this is the essence teaching,
teaching of the entire Buddha teaching,
particularly more connected with the Doki teachings.
And who taught this?
And the very famous master, and many of you met and heard,
and known as his Holiness, "Dunurumuchi,"
or many times we called "Jabgi Dunurumuchi,"
who came in the 20th century,
and he was one of the great enlightened masters in the 20th century.
In the 20th century, he taught so many teachings
throughout the world, in Tibet, in India, in the Bhutan,
in the old Nepal, and everywhere.
And he was renowned, great enlightened master,
and his teachings are now published.
All that is our 45th book for all teachings.
So he's one of the great, really, masters,
living master, also Tertung,
and also known as Regent of the Naripam Masambhava.
He is Regent of the Naripam Masambhava.
Oh, he is, he was.
And the Naripam Masambhava came in swimming home,
home as the new devotees.
So he's very famous teacher,
very high in comparison to the teacher,
and master of all the great masters in India.
But yet he's so simple, so humble,
so appealing, so peaceful, peaceful.
This great master, so many great teachings,
and this is one of those very essence teachings,
particularly more direct to do the practices,
to meditate, to kind of bring all the teachings of the Buddha
to condense it and practice that.
So that is what he wrote.
And whenever you go to, you know,
his life story or his,
there's so many great masters,
so many his disciples,
and all the teachings,
so many places.
So that's it.
And now, this title will go.
This teaching, they always talk like this,
or the very great masters of those teachings,
when they gave the teaching, they always told this way.
So I try to follow all of these kind of input steps.
So this teaching, this whole teaching is divided into three groups.
The first, second, and third.
First is the title of this book.
Second is the principle body of this teaching.
And the third is, then colorful of those teachings.
So those are three.
Three.
So now we go to the title of this teaching.
Title of this teaching is what is here.
Here in the English translated.
Essential heart and stroke of the joking,
will, meditation, and conduct.
So that is the title of this teaching.
Title is just generally, often in the teaching, often said that teaching,
the title is the condensed meaning of the entire, this teaching too.
So the title is not just a title,
but it has really is the essence of this whole, this booklet.
So this is the title.
And now this is, first is that we go to the essential heart and stroke terms.
Essential heart and stroke terms.
This, again, this essential heart structure,
referring to this is essence teachings of the entire Buddha teachings.
Buddha, a gracious teacher, Buddha Shatyamuni,
who came two thousand six hundred years ago in India,
he gave the teaching after he got enlightenment.
Even though he is already enlightenment,
but in the external level,
he started giving the teaching after his enlightenment.
According to his story,
he reached enlightenment under Bodhi tree in the Buddha Gaya
on the northern India at 35.
Once he got enlightenment and after putting nine days after seven weeks,
then he gave the fourth teaching,
which is known as the poor noble true teachings
in the Varanasi or the modern time,
the designated location or that is modern time,
Sarnam or ancient time, Dheapak.
So he gave the fourth noble teaching.
From that old world, he gave the teaching.
The teaching, until he entered Mahaparin nirvana, Mahaparin nirvana means
until he passed away.
He passed away 81 or 80, according to different calendars.
They have different ways, but about 80 years when he got it.
He is also Mahaparin nirvana passing away.
He announces that he will now go soon.
He will live soon.
And he will live soon because of where the nature is.
Everything is really like comes, stays and goes.
And now it is also his time to go.
And if students should not be, or the followers should not be upset,
they say this is the part of the nature, the disciplines.
We should all accept that.
We all are in that same state.
So I will go to enter the Mahaparin nirvana, right places,
where I like to go.
And he walked, and also that, he walked with the students with bare feet,
together with the group, and when they reach to the kharastha,
not for the kharastha, kushina, there is a famous place,
known as, in India, that is also pilgrimage support.
And when he reached the kushina, and then he was called to Anand,
which is who is the attendance of the Shakyamuni.
For many years, also his cousin too.
He told, Anand, this is the place, now I am going to enter.
And turn the Mahaparin nirvana, and also I am not going to walk.
I am not going to walk now, not to park.
This is the place, and there is two famous, I mean not famous,
two trees, called the salad trees.
When they told him, they said, these are tick trees, tick trees,
but he is sunken, because salad trees breed with two trees.
He said, Anand, please hold my wood off.
Hold it four times, put it on the ground.
So, Anand followed exactly same instruction,
and then, Buddha sat down there, sat down there,
and he entered Mahaparin nirvana there.
But that is just, I am talking that.
But however, he gave the teachings for over 45 years.
All those teachings are best on the three different levels of teachings.
Those are known as the pranajan teachings,
Mahayana teachings, or that in the Vedayana teachings,
all those teachings is.
So, this is essential of all the teachings.
Teachings, how to do practice.
Put that practice to both simple ways.
Not kind of going all the different academic or all the different teachings,
but to put it into practice in simple ways.
So, that is what is essential, essence.
Instructions, essence, and heart instructions.
Because this practice, again, is the essential heart practice, as I said.
See, the Buddha's teachings give those all different levels, different teachings.
In the Vedayana teachings, that teachings are also divided as like two different groups.
And those are known as the out-at-at teachings, in-at-at-at teachings.
So, two different levels of teachings.
Among that two groups of teachings,
in-at-at-at-at is divided by Maha Yoga, Anu Yoga, and Ati Yogas.
And of course, many of you know that, those teachings.
So, Maha Yoga explaining this, because this is now Tantra teachings, the S-treat teachings.
In Maha Yoga explaining that all these universes,
principally all these universe elements, all are enlightened.
Everything is enlightened, as I said earlier, all enlightened.
So, that means all the forms are enlightened.
And how many forms there?
We divided the forms.
Five different forms.
Maybe, maybe, maybe, AC.
I think so.
Maybe put, maybe, put, maybe, put the AC.
AC, if anybody likes you.
It's hot.
Yeah, yeah, I was...
For me, it's okay, I think.
So, the Maha Yoga is...
Maha Yoga is tantrable, means great observing meditation.
Great... that I'm not ready.
Great observing meditation or concentration.
And that teaching explaining all the forms are enlightened.
The forms are what?
Five aggregates are enlightened.
All good.
Five aggregates are what?
Of course, many of you know already, but I'm just a few of you don't know.
Five aggregates.
Poem aggregates.
And then, feeling aggregates.
And then, third one is, perception aggregates.
And the conception aggregates.
And the consciousness aggregates.
So, these are called, five aggregates.
And the five aggregates, the Poem aggregates,
also that included all this external wall, mountain, river, and earth.
Everything, tree, everything is within the Poem aggregates.
There, enlightened.
And then, feeling aggregates.
That is then now more connected with our own individual mind,
or individual, our self, or the beings connected.
Those are four different aggregates, I already said, all enlightened.
So, that is the Maha Yoga teaching, essence of Maha Yoga.
And then, Anu Yoga teaching explains, as Anu Yoga means the observing stage,
the following, similarly with Maha Yoga or Adi Yoga.
So, it's called Anu Yoga teaching.
Anu Yoga teaching is explaining all our physical,
this our, particularly our body is the medulla, is divine, pure land.
This our forms are enlightened.
This universal world is enlightened externally, said,
but this body is also enlightened.
And this body has, is the miniature,
or the body is the miniature, or the duplicate of this world,
what we see outside.
World, outside what we see.
See, stars, sun, and moon, space, mountains, trees,
and the water, rivers, waters, trees, grass, earth.
All that you see, externally, today.
This body has, according to Valiana teaching, or the Anu Yoga teaching,
it has all same things.
It's the miniature.
And even Anu Yoga teaching said,
body is the, it's not weak thing now, it's kind of,
I'm saying now, it's miniature.
But reality, world is the duplicate of our body.
Not the body is the duplicate of the world.
World is the duplicate of the body, explaining all that.
So, it's already enlightened.
Everything is enlightened state.
To activate that teaching and practice, realization,
that is known as, then, Anu Yoga teaching.
Then, Ati Yoga teaching, supreme observing, I'm talking about it.
Yoga, I'm talking about it as observing.
Yoga, this time.
But generally, what it means is yoga.
Yoga means natural.
Yoga is natural, where the natural is.
They say, simply natural.
Natural is, yoga is natural.
But I'm talking, observing around.
Why use observing that, and all coming back to the natural status.
We are carried by the force externally then,
but now we are coming back to the way the natural is,
or the to the observing as it is.
So, supreme observing state, supreme natural state, Ati Yoga.
That, and so.
So, this, among, so all that,
this Dokchin is really the essence of all the teachings.
What means Ati Yoga?
Ati Yoga, supreme observing teaching.
Ati Yoga, discovery, even everything,
all the Mahayoga explain all the enlightened,
and all the Anayoga explain all the physical forms are enlightened.
But Ati Yoga explain all that form,
and all this universe are enlightened,
because mind is enlightened.
Nature of our mind, each of our mind is really enlightened.
This enlightenment is not just enlightened recently.
Mind is all the nature of our mind,
is already enlightened, originally.
Therefore, the physical forms are enlightened
because it is the split of the mind.
And the universe is enlightened
because it is the split of the pure nature of the mind,
or nature of the mind, enlightened.
And so, this next mind is originally enlightened.
And this teaching, this is explaining,
or is going to that direction,
to discovering the origin and enlighten the mind.
Discovering is the origin and enlightenment.
And so, that is, is, is.
And then, instructions explaining this,
of course, he is going to be his teachings, instructions.
But he is also referring, this is not just,
he made up that teaching.
Because he follow in the instructions of the gracious teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, and all the linear master,
the guru-bhema sambhama, and all, from the guru-bhema sambhama,
all the linear master, one after another, continually,
that until he, him, or he, is the teaching,
so he is the brain, the instructions of all the teachings,
of the past masters, practitioner, brain, target.
And this is also known as a new master, order transmissions,
order linear, order transmission, order instructions.
It is continued, not just created by one individual.
It is uninterrupted, order instruction,
linear, that comes from the Buddha,
and as well as all the linear masters.
And so, this is, in a way, and again, if I go kind of a little more,
let's try a little detail.
In the Nyingma school, or in the Vadiyana teaching,
often mentioned, there is three lineages,
mind-to-mind transmission lineage,
and symbolic transmission lineage,
and order transmission lineage.
Wherever translated, mind-to-mind transferring systems,
and then symbolic sign in the signal,
through a sign in a single, last meeting of the teachings,
and then order instruction, last meeting of the teachings.
So, this is congruence of all that three lineages,
three lineages, come from one single state,
as order instruction or instructions.
And so therefore, it is explained and indicated,
this teaching is not just created by someone,
or created by his whole union himself,
but is a continuing order instruction lineage.
And what is that lineage?
The Quora teaching opens in lineage of the Buddha teaching,
a very simple interesting,
lineage of love, lineage of compassion,
lineage of the Muslims.
So, this is the union,
or it is inseparably together,
lineage of love, lineage of compassion,
lineage of wisdom,
that came in the form of the instruction,
that is then transmitted to all of us by his whole union.
Then in here, say that Dzogchen,
now many of you know already this, Dzogchen word.
But Dzogchen is, we say that,
where is all instruction?
All teaching comes from Dzogchen.
Dzogchen is available, which means greater completions.
And the greater completion, where that refer again,
is the same thing to our own nature of the mind,
our own awareness.
Your awareness, my awareness, that is everything.
What is really Dzogchen?
Dzogchen is our awareness.
Your awareness, my awareness.
Awareness, or my nature of the mind,
your nature of the mind is Dzogchen.
What Dzogchen means, to be the word,
what does that mean?
Greater completions, or greater source?
Greater source, greater completions.
Completions.
And then it goes, if we go a little more,
in the teaching of Dzogchen,
say that the foundation Dzogchen,
and the path Dzogchen,
and the achievement Dzogchen for greater,
yeah, result Dzogchen.
Those are the teaching measures.
So three, yeah, three, three.
So the ground Dzogchen is our own awareness.
Your awareness, I said already, my awareness.
And Dzogchen is the greater completions,
or the greater source.
Why I'm saying the greater source?
Because according to the teaching,
Dzogchen is source of samsara and nirvana.
Both come from one's own awareness.
And maybe it's difficult, hard to believe,
mind is the source of samsara,
mind is the source of nirvana.
Our own awareness, our own nature of the mind,
nature of the mind, your mind.
So that means my nature of the mind,
or my mind is the source of my samsara
and source of my nirvana.
So it's coming from that.
And also where is samsara and nirvana?
It's the nature of the mind.
If it comes, if it says all the samsara
and all the nirvana,
I say one way it's included within the mind,
within the nature of the mind.
And so everything really is included within the mind.
Everything, where our samsara is,
in what way is our nirvana,
as I said many times, in the mind.
Where it comes from is the mind.
So expanding from the mind
and also observing to the mind.
Mind and mind encompass everything.
In the teachings, according to the Buddha's teachings,
the greatest teachings, the Buddha's teachings,
how mind is big.
How big mind is.
Mind has no measurement.
And what, you know, in the teachings it,
students ask to Buddha,
what is limitation of the mind?
And the Buddha asks, what is limitation of the space?
And then the Buddha, the student says,
there is no limitation of the space.
And similarly, Buddha said, mind has no limitation.
As far as space goes, that far mind goes.
So that means mind is pervasive,
this place is pervasive.
There is not really any discipline.
I mean, limitation is pointless.
That is the dzogchen.
Dzogchen.
So everything, all the enlightenment,
pada ho, nirvana, samsara, all is within the mind,
within the awareness state of the mind.
That is what dzogchen is.
Now, dzogchen is the teaching of this,
so that is really, and then also in the teaching of cremation,
I become many of you all know this,
all the accumulation merit,
Muslims are also completely within the dzogchen.
When you discover the nature of the mind or the rupa,
we discover and we accumulate the merit,
and we accumulate both merit.
What is the merit?
The accumulation merit.
So that is the really meaning of the dzogchen.
Now we talk the woo and the meditation and the conduct.
And this is what we are going to practice now,
how we will go to practices,
how we are going to practice dzogchen through these three.
Post the woo, then meditation, and then conduct.
So, this is the two, or three, sorry, three, woo and meditation and conduct.
Now, woo, generally of course, this woo means what you are going to look,
what you are going to behold, what you are going to, what you, woo is like foundations.
Foundation, what are we going to practice?
Or what are we going to meditate?
We are going to meditate on the woo.
And with the assistance of the conduct.
So, woo, meditation and conduct.
So now, the woo, we are talking, we are talking,
woo, if I explain the woo, what we have used is terminology.
Woo is also like philosophy.
Woo is also your ideas, your understanding of this.
And now, all this of course, we are not talking externally, present time.
We are talking to more involved in that.
So, this time, woo is more connected with our repa.
Woo is the repa or we are wooing the nature of the mind.
That is what we are wooing.
And generally of course, woo is this time.
In the Buddhism, woo is what we call discovering the nature, exactly as it is.
That is what we are really looking for.
We are not going to be thinking of something that is not natural.
We are looking to the nature of exactly what it is.
And then there are different schools in Buddhism.
And there was a different school, for example,
in the Puerto Rican Buddhist school explaining of the woo is that egoless in the state.
That means their meditation is more egoless in the state to discover the egoness.
Because the ego is, the ego or the eye is nominated by the mind,
but in reality there is no really independent existing eye on the ego.
So, discovering that through the logic and looking, observing where is ego or eye.
Everything is existing, looking to our body.
And we did not find then meditating on the egoless in the state.
And then in the Mahayana teaching, then meditating of the great emptiness.
And that is also natural.
There is no egos of the individual.
There is no egos, same as foundation schools of Buddhism.
But same time, also all the phenomena existing, there is no solid existing things.
Solid existing. Everything is, is translucent, is emptiness.
So, everything has a emptiness and prefer any aspect.
Totally great emptiness states.
And meditating on that status, those are known as woo.
Now the rotating is going to the bull's eye on the nature of the, exactly to the source of that.
Not going to the externally, but going to the mind.
And where is the mind? Mind.
And there is again, even though we call, we have the mind, our mind,
but when you look the mind, there is nothing existing that we can find.
And therefore, it is called, emptiness mind.
There is really nothing in solid existence.
So that finding of the no mind is the woo of the Dzogchen.
And of course, there is more explaining later, explaining that.
But when we look to our own mind, when we didn't find any solid existing, anything,
then we discover the nature of the mind, or as it is.
So that is, is the woo, that is the discovery of us.
And when we discover that, then meditation means continually maintaining,
keeping that within, within.
Then of course, within instructions, instructions, you are keeping that meditation.
So that means, what we are meditating, we are maintaining the woo,
what we behold, what we discover, you are maintaining that.
Why we need maintaining that?
Because if we don't maintain that woo, then we are completely interrupted by the dualities,
interrupted by the emotions. And these emotions are, what are those?
It is a display of the mind.
So emotions are also, if you think carefully, fully, there is no existing emotions.
First in time, most of us, we are grasping, clinging on the emotions.
Then emotions become very powerful, very strong, and very distributed.
But if we look and discover the emotion, the nature of the emotions,
and let it be as it is, then emotions are not going to disturb.
Emotion is the display. So therefore, maintaining is important.
Maintaining is meditation. Meditation means keeping up,
keeping up the what you wooed. Then of course, there is many different meditation,
or different technique, I mean, what are those techniques?
We've said two. Two, meditation is samatha meditation, and vivashana meditation.
So samatha meditation is supporting to maintain the woo.
Because our meditation, mind is very unstable.
Unstable is carried by the force of the emotions or the conceptions,
one after another. It is carried there, so we can maintain.
Even we recognize the exact nature of the mind intellectually,
but our realization and understanding is not strong.
Therefore, easily disturbed by the arising code or the consumption.
For that reason, then samatha meditation is important.
And those we can talk later, but that is the meditation.
Meditation maintains the woo, the woo of the rumpa.
And again, that. And the next one is the conduct.
Conduct is what? Generally, there are two conductors.
Conduct of the well, we are not meditating or practicing,
and the conduct of the well, we are meditating and practicing.
So I have divided into two, two conductors.
During the meditation or the practices,
during the forced meditation or the non-practicing meditation,
during the meditation, conduct is remembering the instructions,
applying the instructions of the dispatch as the lineage instructions.
That I said the lineage instructions come from Buddha
to all the way to Virabha Masambhava,
and then Virabha Masambhava and all the master to his donut.
So that instruction is uninterrupted the instruction
of the rupa syndrome and the completion and loving kindness.
And love and completion and the wisdom combined and targeted,
it is spiritual, nugget instruction
which should apply during the meditation.
And that instruction, not forget that, forget that.
During the meditation, always remember that.
And the beginning of the meditation,
during the meditation and after the meditation,
remember those constructors.
Also in the teaching,
when you remember the instruction during the meditation,
you just do as you need it.
You don't have to remember.
Once you are on the beautiful stages of the smooth meditation stages,
then you don't have to apply the instruction of that.
Or really you remember.
Those remembrance are called distant memories.
Kind of distantly watching by the memory.
Mindfulness is watching your meditation,
not instantly applying those again and again with that.
And then if we apply too many of that instruction,
then it becomes kind of very disturbing.
So therefore, I would distantly, mindfulness is watching our meditation,
meditation, but continually keep the smoothness and calmness
and continuation on the one we know in that stage.
Just remember.
And that is also a story that we remember.
In Buddha Shakyamuni's time, there is a very famous arghada,
known as (?) and he has become very good at arghadas.
And he received the instruction.
He was a very wealthy family or wealthy son,
a very wealthy son.
And then he becomes a Buddha student and he is practicing.
And he is practicing meditating there.
And then he came to the Buddha.
Buddha and he told, "How is your meditation?"
And he said, "My meditation is not coming so good."
Good.
So then the Buddha said, "Why is not coming not good?"
And he mentioned what he experienced and what he is going through.
And Buddha said, "What are your expert?"
"Well, you are in a house."
"When are you in a house?"
"What are you expert?"
"What do you do?"
He said, "I am very expert of playing the guitar or the medallins."
"Medallins."
So then Buddha asked him,
"That medallion sound or the guitar sound or the guitar, how it comes?"
"By the two, my string is too tight."
"Tight or string is too loose."
Loose.
And he said, "No, none of those who come there."
"The medallins, the strings need to be perfect."
He said, "Not too tight, not too loose."
And so that's what this student applied to Buddha.
And the Buddha said, "Medallins could do exactly that."
"You could do medallins."
"Not too tight, not too loose."
"Too tight and can't apply all the instructions."
"Too forcefully, no."
"And also not, remember the instructions, also not."
"So we are motivated to come here."
"Very gentle, peaceful way to instruct and apply."
"And then you, that's what the Buddha mentioned."
"And then he did that way and he agreed to the Arathas.
So therefore, the conductor is, during the meditation, again,
apply the remembered instruction, but also not constantly applying,
but maintain the calmness, smoothness of the meditations.
And then the post-meditation or the conduct of the well you are not meditating is,
then, is called phase three conduct.
Those are known as, they were great master, or great teacher, great master,
Guru Pia Masambha said in his teacher.
Accidental conduct, inward conduct, sacred conduct.
Those are three conduct.
Accidental conduct is the physical conduct.
Physical conduct, external conduct is, then,
followed according to the Pundeghya teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha's teaching.
That Pundeghya teaching of the Buddha's conduct is
completely based upon the mindfulness,
and the alertness and the cautiousness, cautiousness.
But that conduct is conduct of the body, conduct of speech.
So, good hour conduct, activity, really mind,
activity of the body, activity of speech,
God with mindfulness, alertness, and cautiousness.
Always pause, always remember.
And even in the Gokye teaching,
conduct should be timidhi, timidhi, t-i-m-i-dhi.
Conduct should be timidhi, and conduct should be,
be thoughtful and mindfulness, the physical conduct.
And that means your own conduct will become very beautiful,
calm, peaceful, soothing, calming, thoughtful,
appealing, and not too many reactions.
Too many conduct, bumpy.
So, the outer conduct is like Pundeghya teaching of the Buddha.
In a conduct, as great mass of Gokye and Masambha said,
hall of the sutras, so that means inner conduct, hall of the Mahayana.
What does that mean?
Mahayana is conduct, inner conduct is conduct of the mind,
conduct of the mind or the Mahayana and the body together.
More compassion, more loving kindness,
more respect, more appreciation, more thankful.
That nobody sees externally, but inwardly they have more joy,
more appreciation, more love, more compassion, more respect.
And then that will also reflect into the physically, verbally,
becoming more gentle, peaceful, but inwardly.
Mental conduct is the bodhicata conduct, all sitting in inner conduct.
The physical conduct is Vaidyana conduct.
Vaidyana conduct is a fearlessness, not to doubt,
not hesitating, hesitating, not to narrow mind.
All, what's called vastness, motivation, vastness, or the purest motivation.
See, every day is an enlightened status.
This is not just making up that.
All the forms are enlightened.
All the songs are enlightened.
Songs, all the space of mind is enlightened.
And embracing that nature by the many instructions of the teachings,
which is such as known as visualizations, complete stage practices.
And that complete stage, the visualization stage is not two different directions.
The union, union of the two stages, correction stage, visualization stage,
union of it, seeing everything, bring more purity, more divine qualities
in the heart of mind, not net caring and the deluded, or arrested by the duality mind.
Vaidyana is the practice of the breath and dualities.
So inwardly, or secretly, have that feellessness status.
Even if you have the highest realization of the Vaidyana teaching,
every day is a divine status, every day is a purity status.
And as eternal, all are exactly the same as political teachings.
With thoughtful, with mindfulness, with cautiousness and alertness, with terminus.
And all those, such as, in this life, this life, such as great masters,
we saw, he's on the duality.
He's on the single, general.
He's on the Dalai Lama.
Now, now we see.
They are really according to Vaidyana.
They are highest in realization.
But yet, they are humble and simple, and follow the exactly external guidelines
of the Buddhas as fundamental teachings.
And then inwardly, singularly, a human control, bodhijana, mahayana control,
love and compassion.
That we say simply is bodhijana.
Now, even you have the highest, even your highest realization,
realization is divine, mandala, polka, everything you see as a Buddha.
And everything is enlightened, all, everything.
But your love and compassion, completely, saturated,
and filled heart with love and compassion, everything.
That is our goal.
It's surely when you're corner teaching, when you've got the highest,
as much as your, you've got the realization of the true nature,
the score or the rupa, nature of the mind, that much, the love, that much compassion,
that much, much love is really growing.
In the Buddha teaching, those who are highly enlightened,
their love and compassion comes as their realization, highest.
There's no one has highest realization, and no love, no compassion.
That's never happening.
If that's not happening, then their realization is questionable,
not right.
Therefore, love and compassion, as you've seen the teaching said,
as much as you've got the realization of the emptiness or realization
of the true nature of the mind, that much love and compassion comes,
just so strong.
That's why all those great masters, so compassionate, so kind,
so really, so like just humble and simple.
Also, I'm teaching, too.
So that is the conduct.
Conduct that, so that woo, meditation, and conduct.
So this teaching is explaining of all that we go through,
one after another, another.
And so that is really about the title, title of that,
and now we go to start with the instructions.
And now here, all faithful nuns listening here,
and this is the accursed by two students, two nuns,
nuns and their names at the end of this.
This is the one with the names of the [inaudible]
and the other's name is [inaudible]
and three of them, three disciples of the [inaudible]
asked them, asking him to give simple instructions
so that they can handle, they can follow.
So they insisted that they hold the teaching here.
There, then therefore, his owners gave these instructions.
These instructions, and also, as I said,
his instructions of the oral instructions,
all the great masters, but also his instructions
of subcontinent the song of, subcontinent the song
of the instructions.
He told us that [inaudible]
trying to think of these and trying to compose
a really effort there.
But as it came, he was the mind and complete the mind,
and then he uttered or he didn't know.
So this is the regular hum of his own [inaudible]
as his express of his realization,
his understanding, as he did and he achieved,
that he is sharing to the others today.
And now, on the [inaudible]
and the listening to it.
[inaudible]
And what that actually means,
because to retreat, why is it amazing?
Why is it wonderful?
There's many reasons that.
And that this is also, of course,
expressed to himself, to his own [inaudible]
himself, but it's more expressed to the others,
to students, to nuns, nuns.
And how amazing.
That means how amazing you are,
you have the fortunate or beautiful human beings.
You are born as a beautiful human being,
and not just a human being,
but you are determined to do practices, meditate.
So external vessel of the physical form
is awesome or some of beautiful.
And any attitude of your thought
is that willing to practice or practicing is amazing.
So externally is amazing, inwardly is amazing.
That is.
And that also indicated to all of us, too.
Which, I mean, he's honest, is it?
He's asking, how awesome are we all?
You are, and me too, we all.
And we use this amazing situation,
we will get even more amazing.
More beautiful.
How amazing.
Painful.
More grateful.
More happy.
Happy.
Yes.
This is to be kind of as a born as human beings.
Where we are born as human beings,
we have the interesting or the motivation
to do something better for ourselves,
to the other beings.
This is even more amazing.
That means without.
And also same time have strong courage
and commitment in the heart and mind
that I'm going to continue meditate.
I'm not let it go and hold part or drop the weight.
I'm going to continue going to keep this really strong.
Until I reach enlightenment,
until I become Buddhahood,
until every living beings reach enlightenment,
as a great master,
Master Chantideva and also Buddha Chijin said that.
As long as space exists,
as long as a sentient beings exist,
that long may I exist things or may I be,
be and help to everyone.
May that become.
Those are the praise of the Bodhisattvas.
This is not just a making up,
just saying that all short time.
But that is their determinations,
their courage, their commitment.
That is not just a few years short or one,
three years short, four years short of that.
Until I reach enlightenment,
until every living being,
may I be continually serviced with everyone.
Really you say no.
You need this great guide,
Bodhisattva, guide to the way in the life of the Bodhisattvas.
Chijin said this is the Bodhisattvas.
And that's what called our locutus for it.
Here it is.
Even according to Chijin,
he is totally enlightenment,
or he or she is totally enlightenment,
but yet he is acting as Bodhisattvas,
helping to all the sentient beings.
Never I is blinking or lost,
or what's called never blink or never stop the eye of compassion
to even short moments or once,
one second to looking for all the beings.
Therefore called in itself,
in the Tibetan genesis,
all the time watching,
looking by compassion, compassion.
So therefore, this is amazing.
We are starting.
Now we are beginning.
Really, we are making that beautiful journey,
journey of this great Bodhisattvas.
Great.
And the Bodhisattva journey is called journey from the joy to the joy,
from the light to the light.
Maybe we've been from different times,
from the dark to dark or dark to light.
The dark to the light kind of rotates in different ways.
But now we are going to.
Our journey will be from light to light and to light,
brighter, brighter,
and not just a bright ourselves,
but going to benefit for all beings.
Those are therefore this is a whole,
amazing situation, all of us.
And then he said,
path of a numb, listen, is.
Path is, of course, you all know, in individuals.
Deva, deva, deva.
Not path is so important.
In what the great master,
Nagarjuna said.
Why are you practicing?
Because of the path.
Because of your path.
Why are you seeing that?
Why are you beholding nature?
Nature, nature, nature,
nature of truth because of wisdom.
Because of wisdom.
Why are you practicing Dharma?
Because of your path?
Why are you seeing the nature of the mind?
Because of wisdom.
Wisdom.
Which is more important?
Again, Nagarjuna is more important.
Wisdom is important, he said.
But among these two,
among these two,
because this path is important,
then the wisdom.
Because the path will connect us to the Dharma.
Path.
That's what he started.
Because of why you practice it,
because you're a path.
Because of why you see the nature of the mind,
because of your wisdom.
These both are important.
But among that, which is,
wisdom is more important.
But before the wisdom,
path is more important, you see.
Path is important.
So, therefore,
path is so important.
That path is also translated into this.
Devotions. Devotions is so important.
In Buddhism, there is three different devotions.
Or that's how Buddha liked it.
Beginning devotions,
and the desirable devotions,
or unshakable devotions.
Unshakable devotions.
All the devotions can be translated,
or you can use it as path.
And beginning is in a teaching mechanism.
A mission that...
clarity...
I've talked about it in this way.
I'm sure you know maybe that.
But clarity is devotion in the post.
Second is desirable devotion, or the path.
I'm sorry.
Third is, then,
unshakable devotions, or the path.
What does that mean, actually?
Desirable devotion, or the clarity devotion.
But when you, for example,
when you read the books for the teachings,
or when you're kind of accompanied with practitioners,
you heard about the teachings.
You heard the saying about the teachings.
This kind of feeling is a little soothing to me.
You feel that.
And then you read the books.
Oh, this is really kind of interesting.
I like this. I like to...
I like this kind of interesting.
So you like to explore more, because of that.
Whether you've got the information from your friends,
or from your books.
That's called clarity devotion, or the path.
So it's a big thing.
Second, because of that,
because of that, now you like to explore more.
Explore more.
You like to more engaging on that.
It's called design.
Design. You like to kind of design.
Now I like to follow that.
I like to do that, see more, explore more.
So that's called clarity.
Clarity devotion has now become desirable.
Desirable devotion has become stronger.
Stronger now.
You like to explore, and you like to more engage.
Now you read more, desirable, read,
and start to do it many times.
Now really it's appealing to me.
Ah, that's really good.
It really ranks. I trust it. I like that.
Very much.
When you get, then it's called unshakable devotion, or desire.
Unshakable pain, fear.
Then it becomes so strong.
Then you see.
Even someone says it's not true, this and that.
You're never going to give up.
You saw the reason.
That means that the Buddha's teaching
poses starting second contemplatives.
You start it, and you react, it makes sense.
Now you contemplate it.
Contemplate what the teaching said, what you told.
Now it's emerging.
Your knowledge and the teaching are connecting.
It's called contemplations.
Your discover becomes stronger.
Then, after that, then you can give.
Then unshakable devotion.
So those are that.
This, this, and so.
So those are, therefore, one who has this all qualities.
Qualities, and therefore this is the listen nuns.
Unpowerful nuns.
And nun is, in it's way, it's called tzumma.
And nun, and of course we all know nun means tzuma,
but tzuma means they're their kind of mind,
body, speech, mind are very much really connected
to the virtues, virtues.
They become the, the body, speech, mind
become the inseparable from virtues.
The body activity is virtues.
Speech activity is virtues.
And mind activity is virtues.
They become kind of targeted.
That is called tzuma.
Is it a bit?
Pimal is tzuma.
Pimal is called tzumba.
Tzumba and tzuma, this is a practice,
name of the practitioners.
So even though maybe they're not completely inseparable
from the virtues, the body, speech, mind,
but at least they're lined up that,
that is a goal, goal.
So that is tzuma.
And then, so soon, so I just go and listen.
Listen is then, of course you all know, listen.
Listen means, sorry.
I'm not, I'm not, you all know, listen.
But in Buddhism, the Buddha's teaching is called
when you listen, he said there's a,
there's a way to listen.
Listen carefully and listen.
Don't forget what you listen.
And then, listen.
So this example used, used in teaching or presenting,
when you are in the teaching, teaching or when you're in a group,
when you don't pay attention, attentive,
then it's kind of like, you're not really paying any attention.
It looks like port, port is upside down.
So there is no way that growth is upside down, not attentive.
And, and then, second nominika.
Second is, even if you are listening that,
but you're not kind of keeping that in your memory bank,
then it looks like you just let it come, but let it go.
It's going away.
That is second error of the, of the winning.
You are attending the practice, listening, listening.
And the third one is then, then even you listen,
even though you're kind of, is a whole name,
but then that all the, that's teaching what you received,
mixed really differently, emotions.
Emotions, kind of skeptical, doubt and hesitations,
and then kind of judging the teaching, this and that.
All that, then definitely emotions.
Then it's kind of, you mix the teaching,
with the different, like, poisons, all the different things,
then it's not good.
So therefore, those with all the having that, that,
and listen, then what the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni said in the teaching, teaching is that,
listen, attentive, listen carefully,
attentively listen carefully,
then when you keep that in mind, I will teach you.
I will teach you.
That's what the Buddha teaching said.
So that's how all that teaching is,
and that's my little teaching.
Thank you, everyone, okay?
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much for participating.
Thank you for coming.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And then today, also, this is,
we thought to do this,
and one of the hiss on the video,
(speaking in foreign language)
in 1987.
So it's last two, two days ago.
It's an anniversary, but we're so busy,
kind of everything is not here.
We're busy, couldn't make that.
We thought that all that celebration
or the memories of that practice
of that is afternoon.
(speaking in foreign language)
Thank you.
And then tomorrow, after going to offer the empowerment,
then of course, I'm teaching in the online,
and which is, I don't know exactly how I'm qualified all that,
but still, I'm doing that.
But the empowerment, I just feel kind of hesitant
in doing that online.
So we're not doing the online.
We're going to do that here, kind of as we used to do
(speaking in foreign language)
And then the other tomorrow, we will resume
from this and thank everyone for participating.
(speaking in foreign language)
And now we do short meditations
and then dedicate the marriage.
(speaking in foreign language)
(footsteps)